docs: add additional payments documentation (#27379)
MystenLabs/sui: docs/content/onchain-finance/asset-custody/address-aliases.mdx

Traditional key rotation on Sui requires transferring all objects and balances from the old address to the new one. With aliases, assets stay in place:

1. Generate a new keypair (new address).
2. If alias configuration is not already enabled for the old address, enable it and save the created `AddressAliases` object ID.
3. Add the new address as an alias of the old address:
   

No asset migration needed. All objects and balances stay at the original address.

If you remove the old address from its own alias set, the old key can no longer sign for that address. Make sure the replacement key is backed up and working before removing the original address.
## Agent authorization

Instead of transferring objects to a trusted agent or operational hot key, add that address as an alias. The alias signs transactions as your address, accessing your objects and balances directly. Revoke access by removing the alias:

```sh
sui client ptb \
    --move-call sui::address_alias::remove @<ALIASES_OBJECT_ID> @<AGENT_ADDRESS> \
    --gas-budget 50000000
```

> This is simpler than [spending mandates](/onchain-finance/agentic-payments/spending-policies), but it is not sandboxed and offers no spending limits, since the alias has full authority over the aliased address. Use mandates when you need bounded spending. Use aliases only when you need full delegation to a trusted key.

Author: ```suggestion
```

title: Address Aliases for Asset Custody
description: >-
  Use address aliases to allow multiple keys to act as a single Sui address,
  enabling key rotation and account abstraction without asset migration.
keywords:
  - address aliases
  - account abstraction
  - key rotation
  - AddressAliases
  - alias management
  - asset custody
goal:
  description: >-
    Reader can use address aliases for key rotation and account
    abstraction without migrating assets
  requires:
    - has_frontmatter:
        - title
        - description
        - keywords
      label: Has required frontmatter fields
    - min_words: 300
      label: Needs more content depth
    - pattern: '```'
      min: 1
      label: Has code examples
    - has_questions: true
      label: Needs questions for AI search visibility
    - has_answer: true
      label: Needs answer summary for AI citation
questions:
  - What are address aliases on Sui?
  - How do I rotate keys without migrating assets on Sui?
  - How do I use address aliases for agent authorization?
answer: >-
  Address aliases let you authorize additional Sui addresses to act as
  your account. Aliases have full sender authority, enabling key rotation

>   without asset migration and agent delegation without object transfers.

Author: ```suggestion
 Address aliases let you authorize additional Sui addresses to act as
your address. Aliases have full sender authority, enabling key rotation
without asset migration and agent delegation without object transfers.
```

---

> Address aliases let you authorize additional Sui addresses to sign transactions on behalf of your account. This page covers how aliases apply to asset custody patterns. For the full API reference and CLI commands, see [Address Aliases](/develop/transactions/transaction-auth/address-aliases).

Author: ```suggestion
Address aliases let you authorize additional Sui addresses to sign transactions for a Sui address. This page covers how aliases apply to asset custody patterns. For the full API reference and CLI commands, see [Address Aliases](/develop/transactions/transaction-auth/address-aliases).
```

:::warning

All aliases for a given address have the ability to **unilaterally control or take** all coins, balances, and other resources owned by the address. Be extremely careful when making changes to your aliases.

:::

## Key rotation without asset migration

> 

Author: ```suggestion

Before you can add, remove, or replace aliases for an address, you must first enable alias configuration with `sui::address_alias::enable @0xa`. The enable transaction creates the `AddressAliases` object ID used in later commands.

```

Traditional key rotation on Sui requires transferring all objects and balances from the old address to the new one. With aliases, assets stay in place:

1. Generate a new keypair (new address).
2. Add the new address as an alias of the old address:
   ```sh
   sui client ptb \
       --move-call sui::address_alias::add @<ALIASES_OBJECT_ID> @<NEW_ADDRESS> \
       --gas-budget 50000000
   ```
3. Start signing transactions with the new key, setting the sender to the old address.

> 4. Optionally remove the old key from the alias set once you've verified the new key works.

Author: ````suggestion
1. Generate a new keypair (new address).
2. If alias configuration is not already enabled for the old address, enable it and save the created `AddressAliases` object ID.
3. Add the new address as an alias of the old address:
   ```sh
   sui client ptb \
       --move-call sui::address_alias::add @<ADDRESS_ALIASES_OBJECT_ID> @<NEW_ADDRESS> \
       --gas-budget 50000000
   ```
4. Start signing transactions with the new key, setting the sender to the old address.
5. Optionally remove the old address from the alias set once you've verified the new key works.
````

No asset migration needed. All objects and balances stay at the original address.

> 

Author: ```suggestion

If you remove the old address from its own alias set, the old key can no longer sign for that address. Make sure the replacement key is backed up and working before removing the original address.
```

## Agent authorization

> Instead of transferring objects to an agent's address, add the agent as an alias. The agent signs transactions as your address, accessing your objects and balances directly. Revoke access at any time by removing the alias:

Author: ```suggestion
Instead of transferring objects to a trusted agent or operational hot key, add that address as an alias. The alias signs transactions as your address, accessing your objects and balances directly. Revoke access by removing the alias:
```

```sh
sui client ptb \
    --move-call sui::address_alias::remove @<ALIASES_OBJECT_ID> @<AGENT_ADDRESS> \
    --gas-budget 50000000
```

> This is simpler than [spending mandates](/onchain-finance/agentic-payments/spending-policies) but offers no spending limits, because the agent has full authority over the aliased address. Use mandates when you need bounded spending; use aliases when you need full delegation to a trusted key.

Author: ```suggestion
This is simpler than [spending mandates](/onchain-finance/agentic-payments/spending-policies), but it is not sandboxed and offers no spending limits, since the alias has full authority over the aliased address. Use mandates when you need bounded spending. Use aliases only when you need full delegation to a trusted key.
```

## Multisig-to-alias delegation

> A multisig account can add a single-key alias for operational speed. The alias has full sender authority. It can do anything the multisig can. Use this pattern only when you trust the alias holder completely. The benefit is that day-to-day transactions can be signed by the alias without gathering multiple signatures.

Author: ```suggestion
A multisig address can add a single-key alias for operational speed. The alias has full sender authority: it can do anything the multisig address can do, including spending assets and changing aliases. Use this pattern only when you trust the alias holder completely and accept that, while the alias is present, the address's effective security is reduced to that single key.
```

:::danger Aliases have full authority

> An alias address has the same authority as the original address. It can transfer objects, spend balances, and call any function as the aliased address. Only add aliases for keys you fully trust.

Author: ```suggestion
An alias address has the same authority as the original address. It can transfer objects, spend balances, call any function as the aliased address, and modify the alias set. Only add aliases for keys you fully trust.
```
